AF-LOG.md, before:

### 6/30/2024

- Started the day watching these videos:
    - Redis Cache, PostgreSQL Databases, Messaging, & More with .NET Aspire
        - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4t_-g4fwEG0
    - EF Core database model first - take it to the next level with Power Tools CLI | .NET Conf 2023
        - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fwR59ep-2-8
        - Useful if I were to connect to 3rd party dbs like with COBRA!!
    - Beginner's Guide to Dev Containers - The Instant Dev Environment That I LOVE!
        - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X7guekGZM20
        - Not sure I'll use it given Aspire, but it seems related to Testcontainers (at least in principle).    

- Cleaned up a lot
    - Simplified the names of projects and folders. It is now much more readable
        
        - Intelliblog.Domain, Intelliblog.Application, Intelliblog.Infrastructure, Intelliblog.WebApi, Intelliblog.FunctionalTests, Intelliblog.UnitTests and Intelliblog.IntegrationTests
        
    - I think Ardalis project structure could be improved

        - I linked my .Domain to MediatR.Contracts. No need for the full mediator in .Core/.Domain
        - IMPORTANT: In his Core example he has IArticleDeleteService and ArticleDeletedEvent so that handlers can subscribe 
        to these Domain Events and react. While I agree Domain Events are indeed part of the Domain, I think both the 
        events-handlers AND event-raisers belong to Application. In Domain we should only list them, and that implies the 
        Application has to honor them.
            - Having some implementers like IArticleDeleteService/ArticleDeleteService in Domain is a mistake imo.

    - 
         
    - IMPORTANT: I guess what I am doing is mixing the best of what I learned in my career, plus Ardalis and Jason Taylor.
        - Ardalis: the project structure and initial template
        - Jason Taylor: the DDD focus with Domain & Application
            - I like his Domain much better than Ardfalis Core. JT is cleaner imho

### 6/29/2024

- Struggled a bit to make migrations work with the subfolder structure \Data\migrations
    - Created Notes.txt file which contains the right dotnet ef database commands
    - I had a SqlServer (Linux) listening on 127.0.0.1 while localhost was being used by SqlLocalDb.

- Switched from sqlite to sql server
    - Renamed main connection string 'DbConnection' and added secrets
    - Generated first migration
    - Upgraded packages
    - Added .gitignore for the log files outputed by the web api
    - Tested api.http works

- Caught up on several techniques for testing.

    - Added https://github.com/martincostello/xunit-logging to integration tests

    - Created a temporary connects-to-db test to show I can create a service provider easily in the test 

        - I can get output from ILogger and the test itself.

- Article.Tags seem to work but I don't think I am getting the right SQL. I see OPENJSON used. 
    - SELECT TOP(1) [a].[Id], [a].[Tags], [a].[Title]
      FROM [Articles] AS [a]
      WHERE N'TAG2' IN (
          SELECT [t].[value]
          FROM OPENJSON([a].[Tags]) WITH ([value] nvarchar(max) '$') AS [t]
      )

- Watched very useful videos about testing:

    - The cleanest way to use Docker for testing in .NET 
        - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8IRNC7qZBmk

    - The BEST way to reset your database for testing in .NET
        - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E4TeWBFzcCw
        - Respawn (from JBogard) https://github.com/jbogard/Respawn

### 6/28/2024

- Talked to SF and then published to Github
- Renamed LOG.MD to AF-LOG.md
- Created Dev branch

### 6/27/2024

- Watched some good videos about EF 8
    - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_8iH5QnkIJo
        - JSON columns and related features resolve a lot of problems for the mapping of the Domain layer.
        - Might be able to use MSSQL/Postgres instead of having to move to Cosmos or Mongo. #lessunknowns
    - Refreshed my memory about strongly typed ids
        - I should use them. It helped me greatly in videomatic #safercode
        - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MJcaxi3bOO8
      


### 6/26/2024

- Started the application using the Aspire starter template.
- Renamed projects and folders so that they don't have the solution name as prefix.
    - We now have the base \src and \tests folders.
- Created the Solution Items folder with all the basic files for the solution:
    - Directory.*.props, .global.json, .gitignore, .editorconfig
    - See https://github.com/jasontaylordev/CleanArchitecture for more.
- Added FunctionalTests and UnitTests projects.
- Added LOG.md (this file)

- Lots of goodies with EF 8
    - See https://www.dandoescode.com/blog/ef-core-8-exploring-mustknow-key-features

Commit message:

- Worked on the Domain & EF - Good point: scaffolding works

AF-LOG.md, after:

### 7/1/2024

- The one month sprint starts today!

- I looked into the OPENJSON features of EF 8, specifically in the context of the Article.Tags property.     
    
    - https://chatgpt.com/share/de265a4f-1c4e-41fe-af67-9d6d1a6496b6
    - Conclusion: "Using a normalized table structure for storing tags is generally better for performance, maintainability, and query efficiency, especially when dealing with frequent and complex searches. JSON columns offer flexibility but can complicate querying and indexing, leading to potential performance issues. Therefore, for your use case, a normalized table design is recommended."
    
    - DECISION: do not use JSON for tags. Use a separate table.

- Finish Domain:
    
    - Articles
    - Tags
    - Images
    
    - Users & Identity Stuff


### 6/30/2024

- Started the day watching these videos:
    - Redis Cache, PostgreSQL Databases, Messaging, & More with .NET Aspire
        - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4t_-g4fwEG0
    - EF Core database model first - take it to the next level with Power Tools CLI | .NET Conf 2023
        - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fwR59ep-2-8
        - Useful if I were to connect to 3rd party dbs like with COBRA!!
    - Beginner's Guide to Dev Containers - The Instant Dev Environment That I LOVE!
        - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X7guekGZM20
        - Not sure I'll use it given Aspire, but it seems related to Testcontainers (at least in principle).    

- Cleaned up a lot
    - Simplified the names of projects and folders. It is now much more readable
        
        - Intelliblog.Domain, Intelliblog.Application, Intelliblog.Infrastructure, Intelliblog.WebApi, Intelliblog.FunctionalTests, Intelliblog.UnitTests and Intelliblog.IntegrationTests
        
    - I think Ardalis project structure could be improved

        - I linked my .Domain to MediatR.Contracts. No need for the full mediator in .Core/.Domain
        - IMPORTANT: In his Core example he has IArticleDeleteService and ArticleDeletedEvent so that handlers can subscribe 
        to these Domain Events and react. While I agree Domain Events are indeed part of the Domain, I think both the 
        events-handlers AND event-raisers belong to Application. In Domain we should only list them, and that implies the 
        Application has to honor them.
            - Having some implementers like IArticleDeleteService/ArticleDeleteService in Domain is a mistake imo.

    - 
         
    - IMPORTANT: I guess what I am doing is mixing the best of what I learned in my career, plus Ardalis and Jason Taylor.
        - Ardalis: the project structure and initial template
        - Jason Taylor: the DDD focus with Domain & Application
            - I like his Domain much better than Ardfalis Core. JT is cleaner imho

### 6/29/2024

- Struggled a bit to make migrations work with the subfolder structure \Data\migrations
    - Created Notes.txt file which contains the right dotnet ef database commands
    - I had a SqlServer (Linux) listening on 127.0.0.1 while localhost was being used by SqlLocalDb.

- Switched from sqlite to sql server
    - Renamed main connection string 'DbConnection' and added secrets
    - Generated first migration
    - Upgraded packages
    - Added .gitignore for the log files outputed by the web api
    - Tested api.http works

- Caught up on several techniques for testing.

    - Added https://github.com/martincostello/xunit-logging to integration tests

    - Created a temporary connects-to-db test to show I can create a service provider easily in the test 

        - I can get output from ILogger and the test itself.

- Article.Tags seem to work but I don't think I am getting the right SQL. I see OPENJSON used. 
    - SELECT TOP(1) [a].[Id], [a].[Tags], [a].[Title]
      FROM [Articles] AS [a]
      WHERE N'TAG2' IN (
          SELECT [t].[value]
          FROM OPENJSON([a].[Tags]) WITH ([value] nvarchar(max) '$') AS [t]
      )

- Watched very useful videos about testing:

    - The cleanest way to use Docker for testing in .NET 
        - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8IRNC7qZBmk

    - The BEST way to reset your database for testing in .NET
        - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E4TeWBFzcCw
        - Respawn (from JBogard) https://github.com/jbogard/Respawn

### 6/28/2024

- Talked to SF and then published to Github
- Renamed LOG.MD to AF-LOG.md
- Created Dev branch

### 6/27/2024

- Watched some good videos about EF 8
    - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_8iH5QnkIJo
        - JSON columns and related features resolve a lot of problems for the mapping of the Domain layer.
        - Might be able to use MSSQL/Postgres instead of having to move to Cosmos or Mongo. #lessunknowns
    - Refreshed my memory about strongly typed ids
        - I should use them. It helped me greatly in videomatic #safercode
        - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MJcaxi3bOO8
      


### 6/26/2024

- Started the application using the Aspire starter template.
- Renamed projects and folders so that they don't have the solution name as prefix.
    - We now have the base \src and \tests folders.
- Created the Solution Items folder with all the basic files for the solution:
    - Directory.*.props, .global.json, .gitignore, .editorconfig
    - See https://github.com/jasontaylordev/CleanArchitecture for more.
- Added FunctionalTests and UnitTests projects.
- Added LOG.md (this file)

- Lots of goodies with EF 8
    - See https://www.dandoescode.com/blog/ef-core-8-exploring-mustknow-key-features
